---
layout: post
title: v0.2 released
---

Today, I have landed mcm's second major release.
This includes a number of major features and bug fixes, taking mcm from a prototype to a trialworthy state.

## File Modes

The catalog and the catalog applier tools (mcm-exec and mcm-shellify) now support setting [file modes].
This allows catalogs to set owners and permissions for files managed by mcm.

[file modes]: {{ site.github.repository_url }}/blob/v0.2.0/catalog.capnp#L79

## Lua Usability Enhancements

In v0.1.0, luacat used the default Lua path and gave little control over its output.
Debugging catalog scripts was difficult because `print()` would send data to stdout, corrupting the catalog.

In v0.2.0, luacat is much easier to scale to larger catalogs.
`print()` now sends its output to stderr.
For ease of use in workflows, luacat accepts a `-o` option to send its output to a file instead of always using stdout.
luacat now checks the script's containing directory to check for modules with `require()`.
You can also add more directories to `package.path` by using the `-I` flag or the `MCM_LUACAT_PATH` environment variable.
One useful set of modules to include is the new [luacat lib] directory: I've written resource templates for apt packages and line-based config files like `/etc/hosts`.
You can see more details in the [luacat README].

[luacat README]: {{ site.github.repository_url }}/blob/master/luacat/README.md
[luacat lib]: {{ site.github.repository_url }}/tree/master/luacat/lib

## Check it out!

There's even more goodies: more robust output in shellify, concurrent execution, and precompiled binaries.
Head over to the [v0.2.0 release page] to grab the latest copy and read up on how to [get started].

[v0.2.0 release page]: {{ site.github.releases_url }}/tag/v0.2.0
[get started]: {{ site.baseurl }}/getting-started
